---
title: Chapter 1 Preliminaries
excerpt:

toc: true
toc_label: Table of Contents
toc_sticy: true

categories: pl

date: 2022-03-09
last_modified_at: 2022-03-09
---
<br>
<br>
**Chapter 1   Preliminaries**
<br>
<br>
# 1.1 Reasons for studying concepts of PL
-Increased capacity to express ideas<br>
Programmers, in the process of developing software, are contrained. The language used in developing have limits on the kinds of control structures, data structures, and abstractions. Awarness of a wider variety of programming language features can reduce such limtations in software development.<br>
<br>
-Improved background for chossing appropriate languages<br>
Some languages are no longer used, and many features now available in programming languages were not widely known at the past. If the programmers were familiar with a wider range of languages and language contructs, they would be better able to choose the language with the features that best address the problem.<br>
<br>
-Increased ability to learn new languages
Their are so many languages. This means that programmers need to continuously learn languages. The process of learning a new language will be difficult for someone who knows only one for two languages. However, when we understand the fundamental concepts of languages, we have a much easier time learning a new language.<br>
<br>

# 1.2 programming Domains
Computers have been applied to a myriad of different areas. It is difficult to list all of the areas, however, the books briefly discuss a few of the areas of computers applications. The contests are obvious, so I will skip it.<br>
<br>

# 1.3 Language Eveluation Criteria
