---
title: Packet
excerpt: concepts

toc: true
toc_label: About
toc_sticky: true

categories: nw

date: 2022-03-25
last_modified_at: 2022-03-25
---
<br>
<br>
**Concepts**
<br>
<br>
# 1. Packet
## 1-1. What is a Packet?
A packet is a small segment of a larger message in networking. Data is divided into packets and these are then recombined by the computer or device that receives them. <br>
## 1-2. Why use packets?
Theoretically, it could be possible to send data without dividing them into small packets. However, such an approach can trigger traffic. Let's see following examples. While the long line of bits passed over the wires between two computers, no third computer could use those same wires to send information. The solution about this problem is a "packet switching" network. Packet switching refers to the ability of networking equipment to process packets independently from each other. It also means that packets can take different network paths to the same destination, so long as they all arrive at the destination.  Thanks to it, packets from multiple computers can travel over the same wires in basically any order, and we can use multiple connections.<br>
## 1-3. What is packet header?
A packet header is a "label" of sorts, which provies information about the packet's contents, orgin and destination. It helps computer or device to receives and to know wher the packets come from. Packets consist of two portions; the header and the payload. The header contains information about the packet, such as its origin and destination IP addresses. The payload is the actual data. <br>
## 1-4. Where do packet headers come from?
In practice, packets actually have more than one header, and each header is used by a different part of the networking process. Packet headers are attached by certain types of networking protocols.<br>
Many different protocols make the Internet work. Some of these protocols add headers to packets with information associated with that protocol. At minimum, most packets that traverse the Internet will include a Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) header and an Internet Protocol (IP) header.<br>
