---
title:  Architectural componetns of the web
excerpt: Chapter 1.8

toc: true
toc_label: About
toc_sticky: true

categories: http

date: 2022-06-13
last_modified_at: 2022-06-14
---
<br><br>
**concepts**
<br><br>
# Proxy
Proxy is HTTP intermediaries that sit between clients and servers. It reccieves all of the client's HTTP requests and  relayes the traffics. Proxies are often used for security. For example, they detects viruses of filter adult content.<br><br>
# Cache
Cahce is a special type of HTTP proxy server that keeps copies of documents that pass through the proxy. By saving the copies, other clients can quickly serve the documents from thr proxy server. Because clients can download a document from a nearby cache then from a distant web server. HTTP defines many facilites to make caching more effective and regulate the privacy of cached content.<br><br>
# Gateway
Gateways are intermediaries ervers. They are used to convert HTTP traffic to another protocal. From the client's point of view, data is received from the server. However, the data is obtained by the HTTP/TCP gateway from the FTP server through the FTP protocol.<br><br>
# Tunnel
Tunnel is HTTP application that relay raw data between two connections. HTTP tunnels are often used to transport non-HTTP data over one or more HTTP connetions.One popular ues of HTTP tunnels is to carry encryptes SSL traffic throuhg and HTTP connection. HTTP/SSL tunnel receives an HTTP request to establish an outgoing connection to a destination address and port, then proceeds to tunnel the encrypted SSL traffic over the HTTP channel so that it can be bindly relayed to the destination server.<br><br>
# Agent
User agents ar client programs that make HTTP requests on the user's behalf. There are lots of agents. As you can easily emagine,the Web browser is an agent. 'Spiders' is a agent that can wander the Web to build useful archives of wev content, such as search engine's database.
